.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2015 The OpenRC Authors.
.\" See the Authors file at the top-level directory of this distribution and
.\" https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/master/AUTHORS
.\"
.\" This file is part of OpenRC. It is subject to the license terms in
.\" the LICENSE file found in the top-level directory of this
.\" distribution and at https://github.com/OpenRC/openrc/blob/master/LICENSE
.\" This file may not be copied, modified, propagated, or distributed
.\"    except according to the terms contained in the LICENSE file.
.\"
.Dd May 1, 2009
.Dt RC-SERVICE 8 SMM
.Os OpenRC
.Sh NAME
.Nm rc-service
.Nd locate and run an OpenRC service with the given arguments
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl i , -ifexists
.Ar service Op cmd...
.Nm
.Op Fl I , -ifinactive
.Ar service Op cmd...
.Nm
.Op Fl N , -ifnotstarted
.Ar service Op cmd...
.Nm
.Op Fl i , -ifexists
.Ar -a service
.Oo
.Ar cmd Op Ar arg...
.Oc
.Nm
.Op Fl I , -ifinactive
.Ar -a service
.Oo
.Ar cmd Op Ar arg...
.Oc
.Nm
.Op Fl N , -ifnotstarted
.Ar -a service
.Oo
.Ar cmd Op Ar arg...
.Oc
.Nm
.Fl e , -exists
.Ar service
.Nm
.Fl l , -list
.Nm
.Fl r , -resolve
.Ar service
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Service scripts could be in different places on different systems.
.Nm
locates the specified service and runs it with the given arguments.
If
.Fl i , -ifexists
is given then
.Nm
returns 0 even if the service does not exist.
If
.Fl I , -ifinactive
or
.Fl N , -ifnotstarted
is given then
.Nm
returns 0 if the service exists but is in the wrong state.
.Pp
When started (or stopped) from a runlevel, services can take only
a single service command. However, when run from the command line,
the service name can be followed by one or more service commands
(although there's typically only one). In addition, some service
commands (for some services) can take arguments, the presence of
which is indicated by the -a command line option. In this mode
only a single service command is supported.
.Pp
.Pp
If given the
.Fl l , -list
argument then
.Nm
will list all available services.
.Pp
.Fl e , -exists
return 0 if it can find
.Ar service ,
otherwise -1.
.Fl r , -resolve
does the same and also prints the full path of the service to stdout.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openrc 8 ,
.Xr stdout 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Roy Marples <roy@marples.name>
